{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;\red218\green221\blue226;\red10\green77\blue204;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17960\viewh8440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Helen Herring\
Pipeline Report\
Term 1, Project 1
\f1\b \
\
\
Finding Lane Lines on the Road
\f0\b0 \
The goals / steps of this project are the following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Reflect on your work in a written report\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa480\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Reflection\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs32 \cf2 ###1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.\
My pipeline consisted of steps for initial processing and lane marking identification, and steps for interpolating and extrapolating the lane lines from these markings. \
First, I converted the images to grayscale, removing color considerations from my calculations. Then I applied a gaussian blur to even out the edges of visible objects, and used a Canny filter to detect areas of high change in gradient, where edges of objects and lanes are likely to occur. After this, I masked out the areas where lane lines are unlikely to occur, reducing the risk of false positives. A Hough transform found the lines drawn by the results of the canny filter, identifying the lane lines and finishing the initial processing. \
After the initial processing, I sorted lines into two buckets, left and right, according to their slope. I extended the lines by taking the outermost points of each grouping, such that each side had one longer line extending through all of the lane markings. After these were found, I used the endpoints of these line segments to find the slope and y-intercept of lines containing them. For the videos, I then added a weighted average of the slopes, replacing lines that were well out of bounds and adjusting the average with acceptable lines. \
With acceptable line parameters found for each frame, I finally output the lines onto the final image. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/udacity/CarND-LaneLines-P1/blob/master/examples/grayscale.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 }}\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
###2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline\
One potential shortcoming occurs when the lane is in shadow, reducing the contrast below the canny detection threshold.\
In addition, high-contrast edges within the mask other than the lines, as with those shown in the challenge video, may be falsely included as additional lane markings. \
One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when a lane initially starts well outside of the expected location in the video, thus being masked out, though this would be unlikely to happen with a camera fixed to a comparable location across cars and attempts. \
Another shortcoming could be attempts to tackle roads with faint or nonexistent road markings, as are sometimes found in residential or rural areas. In some such cases, the borderline between the grass and road might even be interpreted as a lane line, causing the vehicle to drive in the middle of the road. \
\
###3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline\
A possible improvement to combat the pipeline failure when the lane is in shadow would be to use an HSV filter to increase existing contrasts and make them more detectable. \
It might be preferable to apply the mask prior to the other steps of the pipeline, reducing the area that must be processed. \
A possible improvement would be to add a consideration (and probably moving average) of the y-intercept of each lane line\'92s accuracy while extrapolation. I attempted to add this, but did not have sufficient time to accurately calibrate it, especially given the strong variability of the y-intercept between videos relative to the slope variations. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Another potential improvement could be to avoid false positives from other objects than the lane lines by comparing to an expected shape - a single dot, an elongated, slanted line or parallelogram, etc - in order to eliminate edges that run nearly horizontally relative to the camera. \
}